Identifying SQL Injection Vulnerabilities
Before we can find SQL
injection vulnerabilities,
we must first identify
locations where data
might pass through a database.
Authentication is usually
backed by a database
and depending on the
nature of the web application,
other areas including products
on an E-commerce site
or message threads on a forum
generally require database interaction.
We can use the single quote,
which SQL uses as a string delimiter,
as a simple check for
potential SQL injection vulnerabilities.
If the application doesn’t
handle this character correctly,
it will likely result in a database error
and can indicate that a SQL
injection vulnerability exists.
Knowing this, we generally begin
our attack by inputing a single quote
into every field that we suspect might
pass its parameter to the database.
We will need to use this trial and error
approach when black box testing.
If we have access to the
application’s source code,
we can review it for SQL queries
being built by string concatenation.
In PHP, this might look
something like the following.
If user data is included
in a SQL statement
without being sanitized in any way,
the chances of SQL injection
occurring are very high.
Let’s break this down
further with some examples.
In a normal login, a user might submit
“Tom” and “password123”
for their username and password.
Notice how the submitted values
are wrapped in single quotes.
Let’s take a look at what happens if
a single quote is submitted as a value.
Since single quotes
are used for delimiters,
the above query reads as an empty username
and then a misplaced string of
“and password =”, creating a syntax error.
If the web application shows
error messages in its pages,
we would receive output
similar to the following.
This error message tells us several things:
we’ve caused an error in a SQL statement,
the database software is MariaDB,
and the server is running
XAMPP on Windows.
Let’s look at how we can
leverage this vulnerability
to gain access to the admin page.